WiFi Transport: Sharing SSID and password with Mobile Proxy (#981)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password.md

# WiFi Transport: Sharing SSID and password with Mobile Proxy

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password.md)

> * Author: [Ashwin Karemore](https://github.com/ashwink11)

Reviewer: Please add your name here as well.

Author: Fixed in fb4e2a7159168941502b74c6586e06ce38f8fca7

Reviewer: Are you taking over this proposal from Ashwin?  If so, I'll need someone from Ford to confirm.  Otherwise, please add yourself as an author, but keep Ashwin too, so that you are both listed.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan yes, if someone from Ford can please provide confirmation that the author should change from Ashwin to you, that would be great.  Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Hi @theresalech, @LuxoftAKutsan did a lot of work on this proposal, while I was away. If it's possible to change the author as per the SDLC process, I confirm that @LuxoftAKutsan is the Author of this proposal.

```ini
[Networking]
;networkHostPriority defines the priority of network host in case parameter is omitted for mobile and vehicle networking capabilities, or if they contradict one another.
networkHostPriority = VEHICLE, MOBILE

;allowAccessPointSharing defines whether SDL Core is allowed to share credentials of the external access point
allowAccessPointSharing = FALSE
```

__Note:__ `preferredNetworkHost` is the array with priority defined by the order of elements.

### Feature initialization

After SDL Core defines suitable network configuration and finds available feature enabled application, it has to notify HMI or mobile application.

If head unit should be the network host: SDL Core requests HMI sets up a WiFi network as an `OnSystemCapabilities` notification that includes `NetworkingCapabilities` and `VEHICLE` as the `preferredNetworkHost`.

If the mobile device is selected to be the network host the selected app will receive the `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` notification with the info that it was chosen to host the network.

Finally, to share the credentials of the network, it is proposed to implement the new RPC `JoinNetwork` to be sent by current networkHost.

> Core then sends the `TransportEventUpdate` protocol message with IP and port to connect the TCP transport to all appropriate apps. Flow is then as defined in [0141-multiple-transports.md](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0141-multiple-transports.md)

Reviewer: Thank you for adding this language. However, more changes are needed than simply copying and pasting section 7 from the comments. Please make sure the proposal properly reflects what this section defines.

Reviewer 3: This review point is not clear enough for me. 
After Wifi is established, SDL will notify all connected Mobiles with TransportEventUpdate according to 0141-multiple-transports. 
At this point feature initialization is finished and  and 0141-multiple-transports comes into play. I do not see additional staff that should be added to this proposal.

Reviewer: I have provided a suggested change with additional information.

<!--
@startuml ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point
!include ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point.puml
@enduml
-->
![Vehicle acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point.png)

<!--
@startuml ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point
!include ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point.puml
@enduml
-->
![Mobile acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point.png)

<!--
@startuml ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multiapps
!include ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multiapps.puml
@enduml
-->
![Vehicle access point multiple apps](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multiapps.png)

### Multiple device connection

#### Vehicle is a network host

For each connected device, SDL Core will select a single feature enabled application.

> Once network parameters are established with the first device, `OnNetworkConfiguration` will be sent to this application and HMI. After receiving this notification, HMI should send `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` in case capabilities have changed. The next application's capabilities will be compared to updated HMI capabilities.

Reviewer: `OnNetworkConfiguration` should be `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated`

Author: Fixed ab0e7eb

This mechanism will allow the HMI to decide its own behavior based on all of the following incoming connections.

<!--
@startuml ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multidev
!include ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multidev.puml
@enduml
-->
![Vehicle access point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multidev.png)

#### Mobile device is a network host

> A precondition for further discussion is that the first device is connected, it hosts the network and HMI successfully connected to its hotspot. SDL Core already received `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with updated networking capabilities.

Reviewer: All references to `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` should be `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated`

Author: Fixed with 8b3217b

 - User could create an access point and the app could ask IVI to join
 - User could set preferred WiFi network

#### INI file update

```ini
[Networking]
;networkHostPriority defines the priority of network host in case parameter is omitted for mobile and vehicle networking capabilities, or if they contradict one another.
networkHostPriority = VEHICLE, MOBILE

;allowAccessPointSharing defines whether SDL Core is allowed to share credentials of the external access point
allowAccessPointSharing = FALSE
```

__Note:__ `preferredNetworkHost` is the array with priority defined by the order of elements.

### Feature initialization

After SDL Core defines suitable network configuration and finds available feature enabled application, it has to notify HMI or mobile application.

If head unit should be the network host: SDL Core requests HMI sets up a WiFi network as an `OnSystemCapabilities` notification that includes `NetworkingCapabilities` and `VEHICLE` as the `preferredNetworkHost`.

If the mobile device is selected to be the network host the selected app will receive the `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` notification with the info that it was chosen to host the network.

> Finally, to share the credentials of the network, it is proposed to implement the new RPC `JoinNetwork` to be sent by current networkHost.
> 
> Core then sends the `TransportEventUpdate` protocol message with IP and port to connect the TCP transport to all appropriate apps. Flow is then as defined in [0141-multiple-transports.md](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0141-multiple-transports.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, to share the credentials of the network and request that a device joins the network, it is proposed to implement the new RPC `JoinNetwork`  request to be sent by current networkHost.

The device receiving the `JoinNetwork` request will then attempt to join the supplied network. A response will be sent back to the networkHost for both successful and failure cases. If the device is successful at joining the network, Core will then send a `TransportEventUpdate` protocol message with IP address and port to connect the TCP secondary transport to all appropriate apps on the mobile device. The flow after-which is then as defined in [0141-multiple-transports.md](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0141-multiple-transports.md)
```

Author: Thanks for this suggestion

## Proposed solution

The functionality to be introduced in the current proposal mostly relies on the IVI and mobile device capabilities. It is proposed to introduce a new capability type to be specific for networking purposes to both Mobile and HMI API:

### HMI_API

SDL should be able to receive networking capabilities with `UI.GetCapabilities` request at the very beginning of SDL - HMI communication. If omitted, HMI will be considered as not suitable for the feature initialization.

```xml

> <enum name="NetworkHost">

Author: Changed NetworkHost -> Device with  original solution.
Did not change in alternative  : Minimal solution. 
Minimal solution was not discussed on SDLC yet. 
Luxoft and Ford would like to propose  alternative Minimal solution as the main one. 
Is it a point for discussion of SDLC review? Right?

> <enum name="NetworkHost">

Reviewer: Correct, thanks!

    <element name="MOBILE"/>
    <element name="VEHICLE"/>

>     <element name="EXTERNAL"/>

Author: Can't remove this from the solution because it will create several issues that was not discussed on the workshop. 
There are logic depend on this value.

>     <element name="EXTERNAL"/>

Reviewer: At this time, the proposal needs to be revised based on the decision made by the Steering Committee, which does not include this element.  Please remove.  If Luxoft has found that there's a need for this element, you can comment on the review issue with this information/requested change during the Steering Committee's next review.

>     <element name="EXTERNAL"/>

Author: Fixed proposal to keep bounds agreed on workshop and https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

</enum>

<enum name="FrequencyBand">
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_2_4_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_5_0_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_6_0_GHZ"/>
</enum>

> <struct name="NetworkingCapabilities">

Author: We consider this parameters as redundant. 
Added to keep proposal on track with workshop solution with 32e7d5b 
Woud like to argue on SDLC to remove this params.

> <struct name="NetworkingCapabilities">

Reviewer: Thank you for updating.  You may share your suggested change in a comment on the review issue during the Steering Committee's review of the revised proposal.

If the result of the intersection of these parameters is a single value, which is allowed via ini file, the application can initialize the feature and the value should be used for the network.

If the result of the intersection of these parameters is more then one value, SDL Core should rely on priority (order defined in HMI network capabilities).

#### Network hosting compatibility

* `autoJoinWiFiSupported` - defines whether a device can join network programmatically;

* `hostingWiFiSupported` - defines whether a device can create an access point;

* `preferedNetworkHost` - defines a preferable host of the network if both HMI and mobile can host network and automatically join the network.

Decision rules for `autoJoinWiFiSupported` and `hostingWiFiSupported`:

* if `autoJoinWiFiSupported` and `hostingWiFiSupported` are both set to false either for HMI or mobile application, the feature cannot be initialized for the application.

* if `hostingWiFiSupported = false` in mobile and vehicle capabilities, feature cannot be initialized for the application.

> * if `autoJoinWiFiSupported = false` in mobile and vehicle capabilities, feature cannot be initialized for the application.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan please advise.  Thanks!

> * if `autoJoinWiFiSupported = false` in mobile and vehicle capabilities, feature cannot be initialized for the application.

Reviewer: Resolving as this has been removed.

If the `preferredNetworkHost` is omitted in mobile application network capabilities, vehicle preference will be chosen.

If the `preferredNetworkHost` is omitted in vehicle network capabilities, mobile application preference will be chosen.

If for both vehicle and mobile application network capabilities `preferredNetworkHost` parameter is omitted, a decision will be based on ini file configuration.

If `preferredNetworkHost` of mobile application network capabilities contradict the corresponding parameter of vehicle network capabilities, a decision will be based on ini file configuration.

#### INI file update

```ini
[Networking]
;networkHostPriority defines the priority of network host in case parameter is omitted for mobile and vehicle networking capabilities, or if they contradict one another.
networkHostPriority = VEHICLE, MOBILE

;allowAccessPointSharing defines whether SDL Core is allowed to share credentials of the external access point
allowAccessPointSharing = FALSE
```

__Note:__ `preferredNetworkHost` is the array with priority defined by the order of elements.

> ### Feature initialization

Author: The solution from #799 is the first step that we agreed on. But there were a lot of open questions that were needed to be resolved. After the workshop with deeper analysis not all issues and race conditions were fixed. So the proposed solution takes #799 as basis, but adds points that are required for getting things to work.

> ### Feature initialization

Reviewer: The Steering Committee decision was to return for revisions, to update to reflect the solution in [this comment](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670).  Please update this PR accordingly.  Once the revised proposal is brought back into review, you may comment with any additional changes you would like to see within the proposal, and the Steering Committee can review and vote on those.

> ### Feature initialization

Author: FIxed according to https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

> ### Feature initialization

Reviewer: The charts in this section still need to be updated to follow: Core requests HMI sets up a WiFi network as an `OnSystemCapabilities` notification that includes `NetworkingCapabilities` and `VEHICLE` as the `preferredNetworkHost`.

> ### Feature initialization

Author: Fixed spelling OnSystemCapabilityUpdated 
Fixed adding NetworkingCapabilities parameter instead of just wifi wifiFrequencyBandsSupported  
![vehicle_access_point](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11158563/82305427-477a6780-99c6-11ea-8f0b-1057174e4f91.png)

> ### Feature initialization

Reviewer: Please note the arrows below.  There is no param `NetworkConfiguration`, there should only be `NetworkCapabilities`

![image (3)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22600496/82496763-39f2d980-9abb-11ea-9588-5c9efedea416.png)

> ### Feature initialization

Author: Thanks! Replaced  NetworkConfiguration to NetworkCapabilities in all diagrams

    </param>
</struct>

<function name="OnNetworkConfiguration" messagetype="notification">
  <description>
    Notification to be sent to HMI letting it know about agreed network configuration and allow sending of JoinNetwork if needed or prepare to connect.
  </description>
  <param name="configuration" type="NetworkConfiguration" mandatory="true">
    <description>Specifies the service which has been updated.</description>
  </param>
</function>
```

Once at least one mobile application is ready for the feature initialization, SDL Core has to notify HMI and the application on the agreed network configuration with `OnNetworkConfiguration`.

Finally, to share the credentials of the network, it is proposed to implement the new RPC `JoinNetwork` to be sent by current networkHost.

#### Mobile API

```xml
<enum name="WiFiSecurityType">
    <description>enum to define WiFi security types used for WiFi connection.</description>
    <element name="NONE"/>
    <element name="WEP"/>
    <element name="WPA"/>
    <element name="WPA2"/>
    <element name="WPA3"/>
</enum>

> <function name="JoinNetwork" functionID="JoinNetworkID" messagetype="request" since="x.x">

Author: Done with 05fb81f. 
But considered WiFiStateInfo as redundant param for JoinNetwork RPC. 
Would like to discuss on SDLC

    <description>A request for the receiver to join the specified network.</description>
    
    <param name="ssid" type="String" minlength="1" maxlength="32" mandatory="true">
        <description>name of the WiFi ssid</description>
    </param>
    <param name="password" type="String" minlength="1" maxlength="100" mandatory="false">
        <description>password to use to connect AP</description>
    </param>
    <param name="securityType" type="WiFiSecurityType" mandatory="false">
        <description>security type of WiFi AP</description>
    </param>

>     <param name="allowAccessPointSharing" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Author: Moving allowAccessPointSharing from Network capabilities (from https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670) to JoinNetwork was done after deeper analysis of use cases and possible issues, that was not obvious during initial discussion.

>     <param name="allowAccessPointSharing" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Reviewer: The Steering Committee decision was to return for revisions, to update to reflect the solution in [this comment](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670).  Please update this PR accordingly.  Once the revised proposal is brought back into review, you may comment with any additional changes you would like to see within the proposal, and the Steering Committee can review and vote on those.

>     <param name="allowAccessPointSharing" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Author: Moved back to Capabilities according to https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

        <description>True if it is acceptable to share this network's SSID and password with other nearby devices. This is helpful if two mobile devices connected to a head unit, and one of them is selected as the network host.</description>
    </param>

>     <param name="accesssPointSupportsInternetAccess" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Author: Moving `accesssPointSupportsInternetAccess` from Network capabilities (from #799 (comment)) to JoinNetwork was done after deeper analysis of use cases and possible issues, that was not obvious during initial discussion.

>     <param name="accesssPointSupportsInternetAccess" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Reviewer: The Steering Committee decision was to return for revisions, to update to reflect the solution in [this comment](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670).  Please update this PR accordingly.  Once the revised proposal is brought back into review, you may comment with any additional changes you would like to see within the proposal, and the Steering Committee can review and vote on those.

>     <param name="accesssPointSupportsInternetAccess" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

Author: Moved back to Capabilities

        <description>True if access point provides internet access, otherwise false.</description>
    </param>
</function>

<function name="JoinNetwork" functionID="JoinNetworkID" messagetype="response" since="6.2">
    <description>A response and description of requested action.</description>
    <param name="success" type="Boolean" platform="documentation" mandatory="true">
        <description> true, if successful; false, if failed </description>
    </param>

>     <param name="resultCode" type="Result" platform="documentation" mandatory="true">

Author: Added 6997767

* if `securityType` is set to any value but `NONE`: `password` parameter has to be presented.

SDL will not transfer `JoinNetwork` to app on the mobile device in any application on the mobile device had already started service via WiFi transport.

HMI should not send `JoinNetwork` in case if there is at least one app from each device which has established service via WiFi.
In other words, HMI should send `JoinNetwork` in case if there is at least one device with no apps that established WiFi service.

If the validation process successfully passed, the request should be transferred to the network client.

__Note:__ `JoinNetwork` should not depend on the default RPC timeout, since WiFi connection may take much more time. So, this RPC has to operate without active timeout from Core perspective.

![Vehicle acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point.png)

![Mobile acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point.png)

![Vehicle access point multiple apps](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multiapps.png)

> ### Secondary transport 

Author: Updated fb67def

> ### Secondary transport 

Reviewer: Thank you for adding this language.  However, more changes are needed than simply copying and pasting section 7 from the comments.  Please make sure the proposal properly reflects what this section defines.

> ### Secondary transport 

Author: Updated proposal according to https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

> ### Secondary transport 

Author: Removed redundant parts of the proposal to reflect solution from https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

A vehicle should be able to share credentials of the external hotspot only if `allowAccessPointSharing` is set to true in mobile application `JoinNetwork` request and the ini file.

If mobile is an access point and `allowAccessPointSharing = false`, vehicle is not able to establish Wifi connection with other devices.

In that case, HMI should provide SDL `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with appropriate `hostingWiFiSupported`, and `autoJoinWiFiSupported`.

Once vehicle is connected to the mobile hotspot, HMI should send `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with `hostingWiFiSupported = true` and `preferredNetworkHost = EXTERNAL`. If the new application is compatible with HMI network capabilities, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` with `networkHost = EXTERNAL` to HMI and new mobile application. Then HMI should send `JoinNetwork` with the credentials of the external hotspot. After the new application receives this request, it is responsible for its rejection or connection to the external hotspot.

![Vehicle access point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost.png)

> ### RPCs Encryption

Author: Added one more RPC: OnNetworkConfiguration. It is required for successful feature initiation. 

Added OnPermissionsChange with fd6941a

> ### RPCs Encryption

Reviewer: The `OnPermissionsChange` looks good, thanks!  Regarding, `OnNetworkConfiguration`, this should be `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` as per item 5 in [this comment](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670).

> ### RPCs Encryption

Author: Removed OnNetworkConfiguration from that proposal and shaped solution according to OnNetworkConfiguration https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670

 
 - This was rejected because `OnServiceStatusUpdate` is specific for application, but for WiFi functionality sharing HMI does not know particular application for sending `JoinNetwork`.

3. Leave establishing secondary transport on app activation. 
   Consider following drawbacks:
   - Application will receive redundant `JoinNetwork`
   - HMI will show redundant confusing user consent
   - Application will receive redundant `JoinNetwork` on app on second device registration
   - Applicable if mobile is access point, and there are multiple devices (sharing is allowed)

### Minimal approach solution

#### Proposed solution

Current proposal introduces additional APIs for sharing WiFi credentials between the vehicle and devices.

This solution does not put on SDL Core any logic to determine access point host.

This decision should be controlled by HMI.

SDL Core does not have direct access to WiFi hardware, so SDL Core is not able to check the current WiFi state.
Such an approach gives the OEM the ability to have their own rules and priorities for WiFi interaction.

> his approach can be easily integrated into some already existing solution because there is no additional logic on SDL Core, and an OEM may just adopt an existing solution for using new APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach can be easily integrated into some already existing solution because there is no additional logic on SDL Core, and an OEM may just adopt an existing solution for using new APIs.
```

    </param>
</struct>

<struct name="DeviceInfo">
  ...
  <param name="networkingCapabilities" type="MobileNetworkingCapabilities" mandatory="false">
        <description>Describes device's networking capabilities</description>
  </param>
  ...
</struct>

```

#### INI file update

Ini file will contain supported modes for the vehicle.
SDL Core should restrict RPCs not supported by the vehicle.

```ini
[Networking]

; WifiModesSupported provides information to SDL Core regarding if the HMI can join to an external WiFi network, and if it can host a WiFi network. 
; SDL Core should not allow JoinMobileNetwork requests from mobile if HMI is not able to join a network.
; SDL should not allow JoinVehicleNetwork requests from HMI if HMI is not able to host network.
WifiModesSupported = AccessPoint, WifiClient

```

If `WifiModesSupported` is empty or omitted, SDL Core will not process `JoinVehicleNetwork` and `JoinMobileNetwork` RPCs and respond with error `UNSUPPORTED_REQUEST` result code.

#### Sharing SSID with Join request

Instead of sharing SSID with a password via `Get` requests, this solution proposes to use *Hollywood Principle*: "Don't call us, we'll call you."

> If vehicle is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask mobile for connection via `JoinVehicleNetwork`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If vehicle is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask mobile for connection via `JoinVehicleNetwork`.
```

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan this does not appear to be resolved.

If the vehicle is ready to connect to the mobile access point, it will notify the mobile device via `ReadyForWifiConnection`.

> If mobile is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask vehicle for connection via `JoinMobileNetwork`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If mobile is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask vehicle for connection via `JoinMobileNetwork`.
```

> The following API changes are required :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following API changes are required:
```

    </param>
    <param name="accesssPointSupportsInternetAccess" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
        <description>true if access point provides internet access, otherwise false.</description>
    </param>
</function>

<function name="JoinMobileNetwork" messagetype="response">
    <description>A response and description of requested action.</description>
    <param name="success" type="Boolean" platform="documentation" mandatory="true">
        <description> true, if successful; false, if failed </description>
    </param>
    <param name="resultCode" type="Common.Result" platform="documentation" mandatory="true">
    </param>
    <param name="info" type="String" maxlength="1000" mandatory="false" platform="documentation">
        <description>Provides additional human readable info regarding the result.</description>
    </param>
</function>
```

HMI should send `JoinVehicleNetwork` to mobile if WiFi connection is required. 

OEM can decide if this requirement should be sent either on app activation of after app registration. 

HMI should send `ReadyForWifiConnection` to mobile if the WiFi connection is required but OEM prefers to use mobile device's Wifi. 

> Mobile should send `JoinMobileNetwork` to vehicle right after receiving `ReadyForWifiConnection`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile should send `JoinMobileNetwork` to vehicle right after receiving `ReadyForWifiConnection`.
```

### Alternative solutions 

1. Use `OnSystemRequest` with subtype `WIFI_READY_TO_CONNECT` instead of `ReadyForWifiConnection`

2. Add DeviceID parameter to RAI request. So sdl_proxy should be responsible for providing a unique device identifier.

3. Add `MobileNetworkCapabilitiesUpdate` RPC from mobile to vehicle to inform vehicle that mobile network capabilities have been updated. For example, the user manually created a hotspot on mobile, and the application is not able to join the WiFi network anymore. 

4. Start secondary transport right after registration, but not on app activation. This prevents sending redundant `JoinVehicleNetwork`/`ReadyForWifiConnection` to the application. 

5. Send WiFI SSID in `RegisterAppInterface`.
It is possible for the device to be connected to WiFi before any application is registered (for example, manual connection). In this case it will be useful for IVI to be aware of this connection. So, as an alternative, it is proposed to send SSID of currently connected WiFi network within `RegisterAppInterface` request. However, this approach introduces a number of issues:
* SSID is not unique enough identifier

> * The access point could be configured in a way not to share SSID. In this case, it's sharing from mobile device could become a security issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The access point could be configured in a way not to share SSID. In this case, its sharing from mobile device could become a security issue.
```

Before PolicyTable update Core can make a preliminary decision based on the networking capabilities of Vehicle and Mobile application:

#### Hardware compatibility

* `wifiFrequencyBandsSupported` - defines supported frequency bands.
Available values: FREQUENCY_BAND_2_4_GHZ, FREQUENCY_BAND_5_0_GHZ, FREQUENCY_BAND_6_0_GHZ;

If the `wifiFrequencyBandsSupported` of HMI does not intersect with Mobile's: the feature cannot be initialized for the application.

If the result of the intersection of these parameters is a single value, which is allowed via ini file, the application can initialize the feature and the value should be used for the network.

If the result of the intersection of these parameters is more then one value, Core should rely on priority(order) defined in HMI network capabilities.

#### Network hosting compatibility

* `autoJoinWiFiSupported` - defines whether a device can join network programmatically;

* `hostingWiFiSupported` - defines whether a device can create an access point;

> * `preferedNetworkHost` - defines a preferable host of the network if both HMI and Mobile can host network and automatically join the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `preferedNetworkHost` - defines a preferable host of the network if both HMI and mobile can host network and automatically join the network.
```

Decision rules for `autoJoinWiFiSupported` and `hostingWiFiSupported`:

> * if `autoJoinWiFiSupported` and `hostingWiFiSupported` are both set to false either for HMI or Mobile application - the feature cannot be initialized for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if `autoJoinWiFiSupported` and `hostingWiFiSupported` are both set to false either for HMI or mobile application, the feature cannot be initialized for the application.
```

> * if `hostingWiFiSupported = false` in Mobile and Vehicle capabilities feature cannot be initialized for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if `hostingWiFiSupported = false` in mobile and vehicle capabilities, feature cannot be initialized for the application.
```

> * if `autoJoinWiFiSupported = false` in Mobile and Vehicle capabilities feature cannot be initialized for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if `autoJoinWiFiSupported = false` in mobile and vehicle capabilities, feature cannot be initialized for the application.
```

  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">true</td>
    <td rowspan="2">false</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>Vehicle</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>External</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>External</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">false</td>
    <td rowspan="2">true</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>not be initialized</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>External</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>External</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">false</td>
    <td rowspan="2">false</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>not be initialized</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>External</td>
    <td>Vehicle/Mobile/omitted</td>
    <td>External</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">false</td>
    <td rowspan="4">false</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>true</td>
    <td rowspan="4">any</td>
    <td rowspan="4">any</td>
    <td rowspan="4">not be initialized</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>true</td>
    <td>false</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>true</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>false</td>
    <td>false</td>
  </tr>
</table>

> __Note:__ `preferedNetworkHost` parameter will be considered only if `hostingWiFiSupported` and `autoJoinWiFiSupported` is `true` in Vehicle and Mobile application capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note:__ `preferredNetworkHost` parameter will be considered only if `hostingWiFiSupported` and `autoJoinWiFiSupported` is `true` in vehicle and mobile application capabilities.
```

> In any case, from the above table, Core has to check whether the network host is allowed in the ini file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any case, from the above table, SDL Core has to check whether the network host is allowed in the ini file.
```

> If both HMI and Mobile application can host the network and both network host values allowed in the ini file, Core checks `preferedNetworkHost` from capabilities: if this parameter coincides for Mobile and HMI capabilities - then this value has to be taken as a network host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both HMI and mobile application can host the network and both network host values are allowed in the ini file, SDL Core checks `preferredNetworkHost` from capabilities. If this parameter coincides for mobile and HMI capabilities, then this value has to be taken as a network host.
```

> If the `preferedNetworkHost` is omitted in Mobile application network capabilities - Vehicle preference will be chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `preferredNetworkHost` is omitted in mobile application network capabilities, vehicle preference will be chosen.
```

> If the `preferedNetworkHost` is omitted in Vehicle network capabilities - mobile application preference will be chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `preferredNetworkHost` is omitted in vehicle network capabilities, mobile application preference will be chosen.
```

> If for both Vehicle and Mobile application network capabilities `preferedNetworkHost` parameter is omitted - a decision will be based on ini file configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If for both vehicle and mobile application network capabilities `preferredNetworkHost` parameter is omitted, a decision will be based on ini file configuration.
```

> If `preferedNetworkHost` of Mobile application network capabilities contradict the corresponding parameter of Vehicle network capabilities - a decision will be based on ini file configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `preferredNetworkHost` of mobile application network capabilities contradict the corresponding parameter of vehicle network capabilities, a decision will be based on ini file configuration.
```

#### INI file update

```ini
[Networking]

> ;networkHostPriority defines the priority of network host in case parameter is omitted for Mobile and Vehicle networking capabilities, or if they contradict to each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;networkHostPriority defines the priority of network host in case parameter is omitted for mobile and vehicle networking capabilities, or if they contradict one another.
```

networkHostPriority = VEHICLE, MOBILE

> ;allowAccessPointSharing defines whether it Core is allowed to share credentials of the external AccessPoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;allowAccessPointSharing defines whether SDL Core is allowed to share credentials of the external access point
```

allowAccessPointSharing = FALSE
```

__Note:__ `preferredNetworkHost` is the array with priority defined by the order of elements.

### Feature initialization

> After Core defined suitable network configuration and found available feature enabled application, it has to notify HMI and Mobile application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After SDL Core defines suitable network configuration and finds available feature enabled application, it has to notify HMI and mobile application.
```

> It is proposed to implement new notification for this purpose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is proposed to implement new notification for this purpose.
```

If the validation process successfully passed, the request should be transferred to the network client.

__Note:__ `JoinNetwork` should not depend on the default RPC timeout, since WiFi connection may take much more time. So, this RPC has to operate without active timeout from Core perspective.

![Vehicle acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point.png)

![Mobile acess point](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point.png)

![Vehicle acess point multiple apps](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multiapps.png)

### Secondary transport 

Mobile should start secondary (Wifi) transport right after registration and transport is available.

HMI is not able to check if certain application is connected to the same wifi network as HMI does withut establishing TCP connection and and starting service on secondary transport.

Such behaviour required to avoid sending redundant JoinNetwork to mobile and to avoid showing confusing user consent popup. 

### Multiple device connection

#### Vehicle is a network host

> For each connected device, Core will select a single feature enabled application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each connected device, SDL Core will select a single feature enabled application.
```

Once network parameters are established with the first device, `OnNetworkConfiguration` will be sent to this application and HMI. After receiving this notification, HMI should send `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` in case capabilities have changed. The next application's capabilities will be compared to updated HMI capabilities.

> This mechanism will allow HMI to decide it's own behavior based on all the following incoming connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mechanism will allow the HMI to decide its own behavior based on all of the following incoming connections.
```

> ![Vehicle acess point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multidev.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Vehicle access point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/vehicle_access_point_multidev.png)

```

#### Mobile device is a network host

> A precondition for further discussion is that the first device is connected, it hosts the network and HMI successfully connected to its hotspot. The Core already received `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with updated networking capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A precondition for further discussion is that the first device is connected, it hosts the network and HMI successfully connected to its hotspot. SDL Core already received `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with updated networking capabilities.
```

> A vehicle should be able to share credentials of the external hotspot only if `allowAccessPointSharing` is set to true in Mobile application JoinNetwork request and the ini file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A vehicle should be able to share credentials of the external hotspot only if `allowAccessPointSharing` is set to true in mobile application JoinNetwork request and the ini file.
```

> If mobile is an AP and `allowAccessPointSharing = false`, Vehicle is not able to establish WIfi connection with other devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If mobile is an access point and `allowAccessPointSharing = false`, vehicle is not able to establish WIfi connection with other devices.
```

In that case, HMI should provide SDL `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with appropriate `hostingWiFiSupported`, and `autoJoinWiFiSupported`.

> Once Vehicle is connected to the Mobile hotspot, HMI should send `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with `hostingWiFiSupported = true` and `preferedNetworkHost = EXTERNAL`. If the new application is compatible with HMI network capabilities, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` with `networkHost = EXTERNAL` to HMI and new Mobile application. Then HMI should send `JoinNetwork` with the credentials of the external hotspot. After the new application will receive this request it is responsible for its rejection or connection to the external hotspot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once vehicle is connected to the mobile hotspot, HMI should send `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` with `hostingWiFiSupported = true` and `preferredNetworkHost = EXTERNAL`. If the new application is compatible with HMI network capabilities, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` with `networkHost = EXTERNAL` to HMI and new mobile application. Then HMI should send `JoinNetwork` with the credentials of the external hotspot. After the new application receives this request, it is responsible for its rejection or connection to the external hotspot.
```

> ![Vehicle acess point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Vehicle access point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost.png)
```

> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### RPCs Encryption

> Wifi credentials considered as sensitive data, and should not be shared without encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WiFi credentials are considered sensitive data, and should not be shared without encryption.
```

> [SDL 0207 - RPC message protection](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/634) SDL feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SDL 0207 - RPC message protection](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/634) feature.
```

> RPC message protection is controlled completely by Policy table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RPC message protection is controlled completely by Policy Table.

```

> It is adviced to restrict `JoinNetwork`, to be sent only by encrypted RPC service, but it is up to particular OEM. SDL does not enforce `JoinNetwork`, to be send only by encrypted RPC service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is advised to restrict `JoinNetwork` to be sent only by encrypted RPC service, but it is up to particular OEM. SDL does not enforce `JoinNetwork` to be sent only by encrypted RPC service.
```

If `JoinNetwork` or `OnNetworkConfiguration` should not be protected, there are no additional issues.

> If `JoinNetwork` or `OnNetworkConfiguration` allowed only via protected RPC service, following rules applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `JoinNetwork` or `OnNetworkConfiguration` are allowed only via protected RPC service, the following rules are applied:
```

>  - Reject `JoinNetwork` from Mobile if it is sent via Unprotected service. (guaranteed by SDL 0207)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Reject `JoinNetwork` from mobile if it is sent via unprotected service. (guaranteed by SDL 0207)
```

>  - Reject `JoinNetwork` from HMI if appropriate mobile has not start protected service yet(result code : REJECT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Reject `JoinNetwork` from HMI if appropriate mobile has not started protected service yet (result code: REJECT)
```

 - SDL should not send `OnNetworkConfiguration` to HMI until appropriate mobile won't start secure RPC service.<br>

> __Note:__ Such rule required because HMI `OnNetworkConfiguration` for HMI can be trigger for sending `JoinNetwork` to mobile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note:__ Such rule is required because HMI `OnNetworkConfiguration` for HMI can be trigger for sending `JoinNetwork` to mobile.

```

 - Starting secure RPC service should trigger postponed `OnNetworkConfiguration` to HMI.

>  - In case if JoinNetwork is allowed non secure SDL not should postpone `OnNetworkConfiguration` to HMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - In case if `JoinNetwork` is allowed non secure, SDL not should postpone `OnNetworkConfiguration` to HMI.
```

Consider following sequences:
![SecureService](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/secure_service.png)

### Preloaded policy table

It is proposed to introduce new functional group within current proposal:

```json
"policy_table": {
    ...
    "functional_groupings": {
        ...
        "NetworkSharing": {
            "rpcs": {
                "OnNetworkConfiguration": {
                    "hmi_levels": [
                        "BACKGROUND",
                        "FULL",
                        "LIMITED",
                        "NONE"
                    ]
                },
                "JoinNetwork": {
                    "encryption_required": true,
                    "hmi_levels": [
                        "BACKGROUND",
                        "FULL",
                        "LIMITED",
                        "NONE"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> __Note:__ Keep in mind, if `encryption_required` for `OnNetworkConfiguration` is set to `true`, Mobile application will not receive notification until secure service is not established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Note:__ Keep in mind, if `encryption_required` for `OnNetworkConfiguration` is set to `true`, mobile application will not receive notification until secure service is established.
```

## Troubleshooting and race conditions

### Race condition in case of multiple device connection

#### Registration race

> From the Core perspective registration process is sequential and since it will cache registration order, there gonna be no race condition during registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Core perspective, registration process is sequential and since it will cache registration order, there will not be race conditions during registration.
```

#### Capability race

##### Vehicle is the hotspot

> After the application from the device is connected and Vehicle should be hotspot, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` notification to the application and to HMI. Since it is Vehicle responsibility to start Hotspot, Core should wait for `OnCapabilityUpdate` with the updated capabilities. Only after this notification, Core is ready to process feature enabled application from another device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the application from the device is connected and if the vehicle should be the hotspot, SDL Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` notification to the application and to the HMI. Since it is the vehicle's responsibility to start the hotspot, Core should wait for `OnCapabilityUpdate` with the updated capabilities. Only after this notification is Core ready to process feature enabled application from another device.
```

#### Mobile device is the hotspot

> After Core has decided, that Mobile device should be an Access point, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` notification to the application and HMI. Since HMI has nothing to do before establishing WiFi connection. So the HMI capability will be updated only after connection attempt to the Mobile hotspot. Before this point, Core will not be able to process feature enabled applications from other devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After SDL Core has decided that the mobile device should be an access point, Core will send `OnNetworkConfiguration` notification to the application and HMI. Since HMI has nothing to do before establishing WiFi connection, the HMI capability will be updated only after connection attempt to the mobile hotspot. Before this point, Core will not be able to process feature enabled applications from other devices.
```

### WiFi disconnection

> Core knows nothing of WiFi connection state. The application which uses this feature, will connect via secondary transport. After the connection is established, Core will not proceed feature RPCs to the application. Once WiFi connetion lost, secondary transport connection will be broken, so the feature will be enabled again for the Application until TCP connection will be established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL Core knows nothing of the WiFi connection state. The application which uses this feature will connect via secondary transport. After the connection is established, Core will not proceed feature RPCs to the application. Once WiFi connection is lost, secondary transport connection will be broken, so the feature will be enabled again for the application until TCP connection will be established.
```

### Manual WiFi connection

> Mobile device is still can be connected to the Vehicle manually (or vice versa). In this case, if an application is connected via other transports, it will receive TransportEventUpdate and applications will be able to connect via WiFi, so the feature is not requred after this point. Core should not process `OnNetworkConfiguration` and `JoinNetwork` for the application, which is already connected via WiFi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile device can still be connected to the vehicle manually (or vice versa). In this case, if an application is connected via other transports, it will receive `TransportEventUpdate` and applications will be able to connect via WiFi, so the feature is not required after this point. Core should not process `OnNetworkConfiguration` and `JoinNetwork` for the application, which is already connected via WiFi.
```

> However, if there are no applications connected via WiFi, Core knows nothing of the established connection, so the first feature enable application will still be able to use the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if there are no applications connected via WiFi, Core knows nothing of the established connection, so the first feature enabled application will still be able to use the feature.
```

![WiFi AP created manually. Disconnected](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/WiFi_AP_created_manually_Disconnected.png)

![Negative cases](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/negative_case.png)

## Potential Downsides

> SDL is not able to check that 2 different transport belongs to the same device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL is not able to check that 2 different transports belong to the same device.
```

> On device connected by 2 different devices will be 2 devices for SDL. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean here.  Can you please rephrase?

Author: Fixed in 00d9e1cf4edbbef38be65f55dceb1e577db984fd

Reviewer: I am not seeing these changes reflected.  Can you please update?

Author: Changed to `The device connected by 2 different types of transport SDL will understand as different 2 devices.`

Reviewer: I've left a new comment with feedback.

## Alternative solutions 

###  Minor alternatives : 
 1. Use OnSystemRequest instead of new notification.

Proposition discussed and rejected during SDLC discussion  https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799

2. Do not postpone sending `OnNetworkConfiguration` to HMI if secure service was not started, but extend `OnServiceStatusUpdate` with `encrypted` flag. 
 

>  - This rejected because `OnServiceStatusUpdate` is specific for application, but for Wifi functionality sharing HMI does not know particular application for sending `JoinNetwork`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - This was rejected because `OnServiceStatusUpdate` is specific for application, but for WiFi functionality sharing HMI does not know particular application for sending `JoinNetwork`.
```

3. Leave establishing secondary transport on app activation. 
   Consider following drawbacks:

>    - Application will receive redundant JoinNetwork

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Application will receive redundant `JoinNetwork`

```

   - HMI will show redundant confusing user consent

>    - Application will receive redundant JoinNetwork on app on second device Register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Application will receive redundant `JoinNetwork` on app on second device registration

```

>      applicable if Mobile is AP, and multiple devices (sharing is allowed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Applicable if mobile is access point, and there are multiple devices (sharing is allowed)
```

> ## Minimal approach solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Minimal approach solution
```

> ### Proposed solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Proposed solution
```

> Current proposal introduces additional APIs for sharing Wifi credentials between the vehicle and devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current proposal introduces additional APIs for sharing WiFi credentials between the vehicle and devices.
```

> This solution does not put on SDL any logic to determine access point host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This solution does not put on SDL Core any logic to determine access point host.

```

This decision should be controlled by HMI.

> SDL does not have direct access to Wifi hardware, so SDL is not able to check the current Wifi state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL Core does not have direct access to WiFi hardware, so SDL Core is not able to check the current WiFi state.
```

> Such an approach gives OEM the ability to have own rules and priorities for Wifi interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such an approach gives the OEM the ability to have their own rules and priorities for WiFi interaction.
```

> This approach can be easily integrated into some already existing solution because there is no additional logic on SDL, and OEM may just adopt an existing solution for using new APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach can be easily integrated into some already existing solution because there is no additional logic on SDL Core, and an OEM may just adopt an existing solution for using new APIs.
```

> The proposed approach designed to avoid bidirectional RPC because it adds technical complexity that causes additional bugs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proposed approach is designed to avoid bidirectional RPCs because it adds technical complexity that causes additional bugs.
```

> Following API extension will provide mobile device ability to share their networking capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following API extension will provide the mobile device ability to share their networking capabilities.
```

#### Sharing mobile networking capabilities with the vehicle

**MOBILE_API** :

> SDL should receive Mobile capabilities within `DeviceInfo` section of `RegisterAppInterface` request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL Core should receive mobile capabilities within `DeviceInfo` section of `RegisterAppInterface` request.
```

```xml
<enum name="FrequencyBand" since="x.x">
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_2_4_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_5_0_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_6_0_GHZ"/>
</enum>

<enum name="NetworkHost" since="x.x">
    <element name="MOBILE"/>
      <description>

>         Use Mobile device as Wifi access point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Use mobile device as WiFi access point
```

      </description>
    </element>
    <element name="VEHICLE"/>
      <description>

>         Use Vehicle as Wifi access point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Use vehicle as WiFi access point
```

      </description>
    </element>
</enum>

<struct name="MobileNetworkingCapabilities" since="x.x">
  <description>
    Describes sending device's availability configurations around WiFi networking.
    This includes the ability to automatically join a network or to host one by itself.
  </description>
    <param name="autoJoinWiFiSupported" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
      <description>

>         Defines whether Mobile application supports programmatic join to the external network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Defines whether mobile application supports programmatic join to the external network.
```

      </description>
    </param>
    <param name="hostingWiFiSupported" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">

>       <description>Defines whether Mobile device is capable of hosting WiFi network.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <description>Defines whether mobile device is capable of hosting WiFi network.</description>
```

    </param>
    <param name="preferredNetworkHost" type="NetworkHost" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        This describes the preference of what device (vehicle or mobile) to use as a WiFi access point.
      </description>
    </param>
    <param name="wifiFrequencyBandsSupported" type="FrequencyBand" array="true" minSize="1" maxSize="100" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        An array of frequencies supported by the device.
      </description>
    </param>
</struct>

<struct name="DeviceInfo" since="3.0">
    ...
    <param name="networkingCapabilities" type="MobileNetworkingCapabilities" mandatory="false" since="x.x">
        <description>Device's available configurations around networking</description>
    </param>
    ...
</struct>
```

**HMI_API** :

> SDL will send mobile networking capabilities in OnAppRegistered notification within `DeviceInfo` struct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL Core will send mobile networking capabilities in `OnAppRegistered` notification within `DeviceInfo` struct.
```

```xml

<enum name="NetworkHost">
    <element name="MOBILE"/>
      <description>

>         Use Mobile device as Wifi access point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Use mobile device as WiFi access point
```

      </description>
    </element>
    <element name="VEHICLE"/>
      <description>

>         Use Vehicle as Wifi access point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Use vehicle as WiFi access point
```

      </description>
    </element>
</enum>

<enum name="FrequencyBand">
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_2_4_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_5_0_GHZ"/>
    <element name="FREQUENCY_BAND_6_0_GHZ"/>
</enum>

<struct name="MobileNetworkingCapabilities">

  <description>
    Describes sending device's availability configurations around WiFi networking.
    This includes the ability to automatically join a network or to host one by itself.
  </description>

  <param name="autoJoinWiFiSupported" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
    <description>

>       Defines whether Mobile application supports programmatic join to the external network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Defines whether mobile application supports programmatic join to the external network.
```

    </description>
  </param>
  <param name="hostingWiFiSupported" type="Boolean" mandatory="false">
    <description>

>       Defines whether Mobile device is capable of hosting WiFi network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Defines whether mobile device is capable of hosting WiFi network.
```

    </description>
  </param>
    <param name="preferredNetworkHost" type="NetworkHost" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        This describes the preference of what device (vehicle or mobile) to use as a WiFi access point.
    </description>
    </param>
    <param name="wifiFrequencyBandsSupported" type="FrequencyBand" array="true" minsize="1" maxsize="100" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        An array of frequencies supported by the device.
      </description>
    </param>
</struct>

<struct name="DeviceInfo">
  ...
  <param name="networkingCapabilities" type="MobileNetworkingCapabilities" mandatory="false">

>         <description>Describes Device networking capabilities</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <description>Describes device's networking capabilities</description>
```

  </param>
  ...
</struct>

```

#### INI file update

Ini file will contain supported modes for the vehicle.

> SDL should restrict RPCs not supported by the vehicle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDL Core should restrict RPCs not supported by the vehicle.
```

```ini
[Networking]

> ; WifiModesSupported provides information to SDL if HMI can join to an external wifi network, and if it can host Wifi network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
; WifiModesSupported provides information to SDL Core regarding if the HMI can join to an external WiFi network, and if it can host a WiFi network. 
```

> ; SDL should not allow JoinMobileNetwork requests from mobile if HMI is not able to join a network, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
; SDL Core should not allow JoinMobileNetwork requests from mobile if HMI is not able to join a network.
```

; SDL should not allow JoinVehicleNetwork requests from HMI if HMI is not able to host network.
WifiModesSupported = AccessPoint, WifiClient

```

> If `WifiModesSupported` is empty or ommited SDL will not process `JoinVehicleNetwork` and `JoinMobileNetwork` RPCs and respond with error, `UNSUPPORTED_REQUEST` result code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `WifiModesSupported` is empty or omitted, SDL Core will not process `JoinVehicleNetwork` and `JoinMobileNetwork` RPCs and respond with error `UNSUPPORTED_REQUEST` result code.
```

#### Sharing SSID with Join request

> Against sharing SSID with a password via `Get` requests, proposed to use *HollywoodPrinciple* : "Don't call us, we'll call you".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of sharing SSID with a password via `Get` requests, this solution proposes to use *Hollywood Principle*: "Don't call us, we'll call you."
```

> If Vehicle is ready to accept Wifi connection, it will ask Mobile for connection via `JoinVehicleNetwork`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If vehicle is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask mobile for connection via `JoinVehicleNetwork`
```

> If the Vehicle is ready to connect to the mobile access point it will notify the Mobile via `ReadyForWifiConnection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the vehicle is ready to connect to the mobile access point, it will notify the mobile device via `ReadyForWifiConnection`.
```

> If Mobile is ready to accept Wifi connection, it will ask Vehicle for connection via `JoinMobileNetwork`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If mobile is ready to accept WiFi connection, it will ask vehicle for connection via `JoinMobileNetwork`
```

> Following API changes required :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following API changes are required :
```

##### MOBILE_API

```xml

<enum name="WiFiSecurityType">
    <description>enum to define WiFi security types used for WiFi connection.</description>
    <element name="NONE"/>
    <element name="WEP"/>
    <element name="WPA"/>
    <element name="WPA2"/>
    <element name="WPA3"/>
</enum>

<function name="ReadyForWifiConnection" functionID="ReadyForWifiConnectionID" messagetype="notification" since="x.x">
    <description>

>       Notification from Vehicle to Mobile to inform that Vehicle is ready to be Wifi client and requests Wifi connection with mobile as an access point. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Notification from vehicle to mobile to inform that vehicle is ready to be WiFi client and requests WiFi connection with mobile as an access point. 
```

    </description>

    <param name="wifiFrequencyBandsSupported" type="FrequencyBand" array="true" minsize="1" maxsize="100" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        An array of frequencies supported by the vehicle.
      </description>
    </param>
</function>

<function name="JoinVehicleNetwork" functionID="JoinVehicleNetworkID" messagetype="request" since="x.x">
    <description>

>       A request to the mobile to join the Vehicle network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      A request to the mobile device to join the vehicle network.
```

        <description> true, if successful; false, if failed </description>
    </param>
    <param name="resultCode" type="Result" platform="documentation" mandatory="true">
        <description>See Result</description>
        <element name="SUCCESS"/>
        <element name="UNSUPPORTED_RESOURCE"/>
        <element name="DISALLOWED"/>
        <element name="REJECTED"/>
        <element name="TOO_MANY_PENDING_REQUESTS"/>
        <element name="APPLICATION_NOT_REGISTERED"/>
        <element name="GENERIC_ERROR"/>
        <element name="USER_DISALLOWED"/>
    </param>
    <param name="info" type="String" maxlength="1000" mandatory="false" platform="documentation">
        <description>Provides additional human readable info regarding the result.</description>
    </param>
</function>

```

##### HMI API

```xml
<enum name="WiFiSecurityType">
    <description>enum to define WiFi security types used for WiFi connection.</description>
    <element name="NONE"/>
    <element name="WEP"/>
    <element name="WPA"/>
    <element name="WPA2"/>
    <element name="WPA3"/>
</enum>

<function name="ReadyForWifiConnection" messagetype="notification">
    <description>

>       Notification from Vehicle to Mobile to inform that Vehicle is ready to be Wifi client and requests Wifi connection with the mobile device as an access point. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Notification from vehicle to mobile to inform that vehicle is ready to be WiFi client and requests WiFi connection with the mobile device as an access point. 
```

    </description>

    <param name="appID" type="Integer" mandatory="true">

>       <description>Unique (during ignition cycle) id of the application.</description>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <description>Unique (during ignition cycle) ID of the application.</description>
```

    </param>

    <param name="wifiFrequencyBandsSupported" type="FrequencyBand" array="true" minsize="1" maxsize="100" mandatory="false">
      <description>
        An array of frequencies supported by the vehicle.
      </description>
    </param>
</function>

<function name="JoinVehicleNetwork" messagetype="request">
    <description>

>       request to the Mobile to join the Vehicle network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      request to the mobile device to join the vehicle network.
```

It is proposed to introduce a new functional group within the current proposal:

```json
"policy_table": {
    ...
    "functional_groupings": {
        ...
        "NetworkSharing": {
            "rpcs": {
                "ReadyForWifiConnection": {
                    "encryption_required": false,
                    "hmi_levels": [
                        "BACKGROUND",
                        "FULL",
                        "LIMITED",
                        "NONE"
                    ]
                },
                "JoinMobileNetwork": {
                    "encryption_required": true,
                    "hmi_levels": [
                        "BACKGROUND",
                        "FULL",
                        "LIMITED",
                        "NONE"
                    ]
                },
                "JoinVehicleNetwork": {
                    "encryption_required": true,
                    "hmi_levels": [
                        "BACKGROUND",
                        "FULL",
                        "LIMITED",
                        "NONE"
                    ]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Potential Downsides

> SDL is not able to check that 2 different transport belongs to the same device.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan this does not yet appear to be resolved.

> The device connected by 2 different types of transport will be considered by SDL as 2 different devices.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan this does not yet appear to be resolved.

### Alternative solutions 

1. Use `OnSystemRequest` with subtype `WIFI_READY_TO_CONNECT`  instead of `ReadyForWifiConnection`

2. Add DeviceID parameter to RAI request. So sdl_proxy should be responsible for providing a unique Device identifier.

3. Add `MobileNetworkCapabilitiesUpdate` RPC from mobile to Vehicle to inform Vehicle that mobile network capabilities updated. For example, the user manually created a hotspot on mobile, and the application is not able to join the Wifi network anymore. 

4. Start secondary transport right after registration, but not on app Activation. It prevents sending redundant `JoinVehicleNetwork`/`ReadyForWifiConnection` to the application. 

5. Send WiFI SSID in `RegisterAppInterface`.
It is possible for the device to be connected to WiFi before any application is registered (for example, manual connection). In this case it will be useful for IVI to be aware of this connection. So, as an alternative, it is proposed to send SSID of currently connected WiFi network within `RegisterAppInterface` request. However, this approach introduces a number of issues:
* SSID is not unique enough identifier

> * the access point could be configured in a way not to share SSID. In this case, it's sharing from mobile device could become a security issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The access point could be configured in a way not to share SSID. In this case, it's sharing from mobile device could become a security issue.
```

If the result of the intersection of these parameters is more then one value, SDL Core should rely on priority (order defined in HMI network capabilities).

#### Determining which device should host the network

> Once the head unit receives the RegisterAppInterface and the NetworkingCapabilities it must decide who should host. Each bullet point assumes that the network configurations can be supported by both devices (frequencies, data fallback, etc). These bullet points are just a suggestion, an OEM can determine the situation themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the head unit receives the `RegisterAppInterface` and the `NetworkingCapabilities` it must decide who should host. Each bullet point assumes that the network configurations can be supported by both devices (frequencies, data fallback, etc). These bullet points are just a suggestion, an OEM can determine the situation themselves.
```

> * MOBILE (assuming canHostWiFiNetwork in NetworkingAbilities is set to true from mobile)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MOBILE (assuming `canHostWiFiNetwork` in NetworkingAbilities is set to true from mobile)
```

>   - Core set MOBILE as the only device in the INI file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Core set `MOBILE` as the only device in the INI file
```

  - If Core set BOTH and the mobile device does NOT support dataFallbackSupported
  - If Core set BOTH and the mobile device set dataUsagePreference to MOBILE value
* VEHICLE (assuming canJoinNetwork in NetworkingAbilities is set to true from mobile)
  - Core set VEHICLE as the only device in the INI file
  - If Core set BOTH and the mobile device DOES support dataFallbackSupported
  - If Core set BOTH and the mobile device sets dataUsagePreference as VEHICLE

>   - If any other settings mismatch, this will be the default

Reviewer: Please update to include backticks as used in [this comment](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/799#issuecomment-588434670).

Author: Added Additional Information.
Also added Android Permission Issue to Troubleshuting section

Reviewer: Backticks were not added to lines 172 and 173.  Please add.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan backticks still need to be added to lines 172 - 177.

Reviewer: @LuxoftAKutsan this comment still needs to be addressed, thanks!

Author: @theresalech added 3342202

### Feature initialization

After SDL Core defines suitable network configuration and finds available feature enabled application, it has to notify HMI or mobile application.

> If head unit should be the network host: sdl_core requests HMI sets up a WiFi network as an `OnSystemCapabilities` notification that includes NetworkingCapabilities and VEHICLE as the `preferredNetworkHost`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If head unit should be the network host: SDL Core requests HMI sets up a WiFi network as an `OnSystemCapabilities` notification that includes `NetworkingCapabilities` and `VEHICLE` as the `preferredNetworkHost`.
```

> If the mobile device is selected to be the network host the selected app will receive the `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` notification with the info that it choosed to host the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the mobile device is selected to be the network host the selected app will receive the `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` notification with the info that it was chosen to host the network.
```

<!--
@startuml ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost
!include ../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost.puml
@enduml
-->
![Vehicle access point multiple devices](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/mobile_access_point_multidev_externalhost.png)

### RPCs Encryption

WiFi credentials are considered as sensitive data, and should not be shared without encryption.
[SDL 0207 - RPC message protection](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/issues/634) feature.

RPC message protection is controlled completely by Policy Table.

It is advised to restrict `JoinNetwork` to be sent only by encrypted RPC service, but it is up to particular OEM. SDL does not enforce `JoinNetwork` to be sent only by encrypted RPC service.

> If `JoinNetwork` or `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` should not be protected, there are no additional issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `JoinNetwork` or `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated` should not be protected, there are no additional issues.
```
Please update all references to `OnSystemCapabilityUpdate` to be `OnSystemCapabilityUpdated`

## Troubleshooting and race conditions

### Android Permission Issue

* android.permission.WRITE_SETTINGS required for Android SDK 29+
* This permission is a “system” permission. This causes an error message in the manifest.xml editor to appear.
* User must specifically grant this permission. This is not the same as a location permission request, it is a distinct permission with its own settings page
* Will require a dialog/pop up explaining why the user must grant this permission and then forward the user to the settings page where they can grant it.
* Because this feature can be used by any app (not just a single OEM app), this will require a pop up and user redirect for all apps that are going to use the feature.

![android_permissions](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/android_permissions.png)

### iOS Entitlement Issues

* The feature could be difficult to test on iOS. If it's not easily tested, regression issues could easily surface.
* Each app will need to apply to Apple for the entitlement.
* Joining the network requires the user to interact with the device each time

>  - “[app] Wants to Join Wi-Fi Network”

Author: Fixed to make point nested

## Troubleshooting and race conditions

### Android Permission Issue

android.permission.WRITE_SETTINGS required for Android SDK 29+
This permission is a “system” permission. This causes an error message in the manifest.xml editor to appear
User must specifically grant this permission. This is not the same as a location permission request, it is a distinct permission with its own settings pageWill require a dialog/pop up explaining why the user must grant this permission and then forward the user to the settings page where they can grant it.
Because this feature can be used by any app (not just a single OEM app), this will require a pop up and user redirect for all apps that are going to use the feature.

> ![andoid_permissions](../assets/proposals/0245-sharing-wifi-ssid-and-password/andoid_permissions.png)

Author: Added

### iOS Entitlement Issues

The feature could be difficult to test on iOS. If it's not easily tested, regression issues could easily surface.
Each app will need to apply to Apple for the entitlement

> Joining the network requires the user to interact with the device each time

Author: Added c7258d9

Mobile should start secondary (WiFi) transport right after registration and transport is available.

HMI is not able to check if certain application is connected to the same WiFi network as HMI does without establishing TCP connection and starting service on secondary transport.
Such behavior is required to avoid sending redundant `JoinNetwork` to mobile and to avoid showing confusing user consent popup.

> Core then sends the TransportEventUpdate protocol message with IP and port to connect the TCP transport to all appropriate apps. Flow is then as defined in [0141-multiple-transports.md](https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution/blob/master/proposals/0141-multiple-transports.md)

Author: Done

## Potential Downsides

SDL is not able to check that 2 different transports belong to the same device.

> The device connected by 2 different types of transport SDL will understand as different 2 devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a device connected by 2 different transport types, SDL will understand this as 2 different devices.
```
